this video after this claim has no
agenda it's not making an excuse for
something else it's not pursuing some
other objective this video is simply a
reflection on something I think is
meaningful to my own life and it may or
may not be meaningful to your life
whoever you are watching it um I just
got a very hostile series of responses
within patreon from a commenter who is
about 60 years of age and this commenter
asked me a question fair enough although
it was brief and somewhat truculent
asking if I had it in me to change if
the type of tactics I've been talking
about why I make youtube videos the way
I do why this whole project means what
it means to my life if I can change and
I think implicitly she's asking a war if
I'm stuck in my ways now in reply I said
look I'm someone who's had to and you're
really terrible really dramatic changes
such as stopping everything I was doing
in Cambodia moving to Saskatchewan and
studying Cree and said I've never known
anyone who made changes that dramatic of
that kind you know switching from
cambodian as a language decree switching
from the politics of Southeast Asia
politics and history and religion in
Southeast Asia to First Nations people
in Canada so my point was in answering
yes not only am i capable of making
changes of the type she asked about
which are relatively trivial like why do
you make youtube videos the way that you
do but ya sham someone who's undergone
these sorts of dramatic and sudden
changes so this member of my patreon
forum respond to this in a way that was
both defensive and offensive respond in
a way that that I called in the past
just in my personal life you know the
misery Olympics now again it turns out
this bro unknown to me this person about
60 years of age and she writes back in
effect saying oh well you think you've
gone through changes in your life this
is nothing here are the changes I've
gone through and making a great boast of
her own sorrow and our own suffering
um I think this is a habit of mind we
all have to learn to overcome I don't I
think it's quite natural when someone
tells you that their parents beat them
up as a kid to come back by saying oh
well my parents beat me up even worse or
to come by saying I know somebody else
whose parents beat them up much worse
than that to try to respond to sorrow
and suffering someone sharing with you
their sorrows by trying to eclipse that
sir but right up oh do that sorrow but
it's really wrong I mean that both kind
of ethically and tactically it is really
the wrong way to reply now in this case
I was actually answering this woman's
question plain and simple I was not
making a great show of my sorrows in
life but it is true there was tremendous
suffering for me in ending one career
and beginning another that way and
that's something I've had to do
repeatedly it was also true when I said
I don't know anyone who's made that sort
of change I could say more but there's
no point here you know but that's all
that means is I I don't know the people
I've known in my life I've never known
someone who made that kind of change
changing from Cambodian decree is an
extraordinary and remarkable change so
if you want to come back to me by saying
that it's not extraordinary remarkable
at all because of what you've done your
life for one thing you're missing the
opportunity to just tell me who you are
and what you've done in your life it's
sort of presuming that I wouldn't have a
sincere interest in wanting to get to
know you and it's also presuming that I
wasn't being sincere in answering your
question and sharing with you something
about Who I am Anna and I answered your
question so I it's a peculiar thing this
sort of combative tone of who do you
think you are don't you know who I think
I am i think it's a it's an attitude
many of us have from childhood it's
certainly something i can remember in
the schoolyard i can remember being very
common at an early age and the counter
opposing attitude of recognizing you
know
each person could have suffering that's
tremendously meaningful to them
personally even if that suffering is
perhaps trivial on a global scale you
know like it may be trivial compared to
the sorrows of the average Cambodian
peasants who survived the rise and fall
of confidence in Cambodia can take one
of these dramatic examples from history
but that is in the truest sense of the
term spurious now I've also been in
situations where someone like a
co-worker chooses to tell you about
great sorrows in the life say a
co-worker is going to tell you about a
personal trauma personal tragedy or that
they were beaten up by their parents as
a kid in some terrible way and where you
do have to say to them look I'm not the
person you should be telling this to
it's actually not appropriate for you to
share this with me that's a very
different situation and that can be
awkward and I think there were kind of
tactics you learn for dealing with that
situation in some way um but it's a very
different thing if someone tells you as
I told this person I just answer your
question can you make a fundamental
change he wants to ask me say yes not
only can I make fundamental change I
have experience with that and I don't
know anyone who's been through a similar
experience of cutting off your life of
bra play in Cambodia starting a new life
with Cree with First Nations etc and
this woman really wants to reply to me
by saying well you ain't [ __ ] the
changes the tragedies you've been
through are nothing compared to what
I've been through that's a lost
opportunity because I would be sincerely
interested in what this woman has been
through if she could present it in any
format other than belittling me
insulting me and turning this into a a a
competition as they say misery Olympics
when it needn't be what I said was in no
way an offense to her what I said was in
no way took away from her life or
anything else it answered her question
totally something about me
and she chooses to make this into a
situation where it's a zero-sum game
where somehow my experience in life my
sorrows and even my answer to a question
can't have validity because she's
somehow suffered in a way that's more
important than how I've suffered I think
that's very sad and I think on a
profound sense it shows a
misunderstanding of what suffering is
and why it matters I mean probably the
greatest suffering I went through my
life was while I was in the hospital
with my wife immediately after the birth
of my daughter and I could describe all
the reasons for that now objectively the
hospital we were in was wealthy you know
I've actually done research on Hospital
conditions in Cambodia etc you know I
know what third-world hospitals are like
however it's also possible to have a
completely wonderful and joyous occasion
and a third row la cible including the
birth of a child now you know the
reasons why the situation the hospital
were so miserable actually a lot of them
did have to do with veganism has to do
with the attitudes of the doctor is the
attitude to the nurses the hostility
managing a tremendously tense and
miserable situation that shouldn't have
been but you know the actual bed in the
hospital was nice the electrical lights
were good okay if you take if you take a
step back and photograph the hospital
from the exterior there's nothing wrong
with it and the country there's a lot
right with it you know the standards of
Hygiene and the hospital for not bad you
can make a list of all the ways in which
this is this is a very positive
institutional context to give birth to a
baby but nevertheless if i sat down with
a Cambodian person and explain to them
the misery I went through that you know
really permanent damage I carry with me
for the rest of my life because of how
harrowing that experience was that
Hospital
for me even even then it would be
inappropriate for a Cambodian person to
turn around and say oh well um you know
when my wife gave birth in a hospital
the hospital wasn't fancy and beautiful
and expensive like your hospital so [ __ ]
you it's also your see your misery
counts for nothing um and again you know
there's a lost opportunity on both sides
there you are throwing away the
opportunity to learn Who I am what I
care about and how my suffering has
changed me and you're also making it
impossible for me to get to know you
because you're presuming i wouldn't have
a sincere and sympathetic interest in
your background in your experience that
i wouldn't welcome you to the table and
i wouldn't recognize your suffering as
something legitimate and important that
i can learn from ok so that's my
commentary on the misery olympics as i
talk about it i think it is something
natural it's a habit of mind that many
people not all people have from
childhood and part of maturing is
breaking that pattern breaking that
habit of mind and disciplining yourself
to listen to other people suffering with
a certain kind of detachment and a
certain kind of respect because you know
ultimately i mean as with all these
things you know a man suffers not in
what he feels with what he knows it's
not when you scrape your knee that you
suffer as a child as a small child it's
when you look at your knee you think
about it you reflect on it then you feel
the pain you can scrape your knee and
run around the schoolyard and keep
playing for an hour it's really not the
event it's what that event means to you
and the construction of that meaning
ultimately is part of how we construct
and construe ourselves who we are
someone else could have gone through my
experience in Cambodia and learn nothing
from it and felt nothing and you know
you meet those people there are people
who did the same jobs I did more or less
in Cambodia and Laos and did it in a
shallow light-hearted way and you know
didn't suffer terribly one way or
another and didn't learn much one way or
another that's true i mean we could do a
whole video here about english teachers
you know people who teach English as a
Second Language in Asia some of them are
just having a good time couldn't care
less or what have you and obviously in a
lot of ways even though I did teach
English in between other jobs when I was
teaching or show the short periods of
time I had a lot of things on my mind on
my heart that other English teachers
might not have so you know how we suffer
there's there's just no sense in which
that should be or must be you know
directly proportional to the problems
themselves because with this type of
suffering we're getting into the
question of what these events mean to us
you know what did it mean to me to have
to give up my own future as a scholar of
Cambodia tera vaada Buddhism the history
and politics that region and to start
again from a blank piece of paper with
the Cree in North America maybe you're
not interested maybe you don't want to
know but that tells you a lot about me
about Who I am and it but why those
things matter to me and I can imagine a
fictional character who would have laid
heartedly you know without great sorrow
without great reflection without caring
who could have given up the one area of
study and taking up another but exactly
what I'm trying to communicate you is
that's not me I didn't do it casually or
in a light-hearted way is it
tremendously meaningful to me and as a
source of tremendous aura so that
capacity and again you know really
sympathy the point of sympathy is not to
wallow in emotion I really think that
the greatest significance of sympathy in
our lives is as an analytical tool
and I think you ultimately have to
invite people to get to know you by
sympathizing with you maybe both in your
triumphs and your tragedies not only in
sorrow